---
layout: post
title: God's Glory
subtitle: Exodus 9:15-16
---
**Exodus 3:15-16** *For by now I could have put out my hand and struck you and your people with pestilence, and you would have been cut off from the earth. But for this purpose I have raised you up, to show you my power, so that my name may be proclaimed in all the earth.*

The main thing that has stuck out to me so far this year is the focus on God in every story. Previously, when reading through, I have always noticed God working through people and focusing on the stories themselves. But this year I have been seeing the purpose behind the stories. Everything that has happened has been for the purpose of showing God's glory. In this case, God could have wiped out the Egyptians before they even knew what happened, but God wanted them to see His Glory. In His soveriegnty, He placed Pharaoh upon the throne knowing that Pharaoh would not be willing to let the Israelites go and thus providing an opportunity for God to show His power. 

The Bible says in numerous places that God is a jealous God. And why shouldn't He be? He is the only one worthy of praise. When we begin to give other people, things, or even ourselves admiration, it is misplaced. Pharaoh made this mistake. Verse 17 says, "You are still exalting yourself above my people." Pharaoh had no right to be proud of his position as God made it clear that He is the one who put Pharaoh in the position. We likewise have no right to be arrogant in our lives, since everything is granted to us by God.

>**[Daniel 4:37](https://biblehub.com/daniel/4-37.htm)** *Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the King of heaven, for all his works are right and his ways are just; and those who walk in pride he is able to humble.*

>**[Exodus 34:14](https://biblehub.com/exodus/34-14.htm)** *For you shall worship no other god, for the LORD, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God.*
