---
layout: post
title: God's Sovereign Plan Part 2
subtitle: Genesis 29:35
---
**Genesis 29:35** *And she conceived again and bore a son, and said, “This time I will praise the Lord.” Therefore she called his name Judah. Then she ceased bearing.*

I am again reminded of God's sovereignty in today's readings. Jacob worked for Laban for seven years with the intention of marrying Rachel at the end of that time. Laban tricked him instead and gave him Leah, whom he did not love. He ended up getting both Leah and Rachel but still loved Rachel more. Why did this happen? Ultimately, it needed to happen for Jacob to father the 12 tribes of Israel. And more importantly, Leah gives birth to Judah, the tribe that produces both David and Jesus Christ. The woman who was not loved and whom Jacob did not intend to marry becomes an important part of the lineage of Christ through God's sovereignty. 

Another interesting not, Leah has already had 3 sons before this one. With her previous sons she said something along the lines of, "Now my husband will love me, because I have given him a son." Her response after her fourth son takes on a different tone. "This time I will praise the Lord." This is the appropriate response. I am not saying it is wrong to want your spouse to love you, but glorifying God is our ultimate purpose in life. Let me not get caught up in seeking the approval and admiration of others when I should be living my life to praise and honor God.

>**Psalm 34:11** *I will bless the LORD at all times; his praise shall continually be in my mouth.*
