---
layout: post
title: Promises to God
subtitle: Genesis 35:1-3
---
**Genesis 35:1-3** *God said to Jacob, “Arise, go up to Bethel and dwell there. Make an altar there to the God who appeared to you when you fled from your brother Esau.” So Jacob said to his household and to all who were with him, “Put away the foreign gods that are among you and purify yourselves and change your garments. Then let us arise and go up to Bethel, so that I may make there an altar to the God who answers me in the day of my distress and has been with me wherever I have gone.”*

It has been somewhere around 30 years since God first spoke to Jacob at Bethel when he was running from Esau to Laban. At that time Jacob made a vow saying that he would serve God if God would protect him on his journey. God protected him and even blessed him with many children and livestock. God, as always, held up his side of the deal, but Jacob (Israel) seems to have forgotten about his vow. He has been back in his father's land for at least ten years and we see that there are foreign gods in his household. God is reminding Jacob of what God has done for him in the past. Jacob responds accordingly by getting rid of the foreign gods and leading his household to Bethel.

It is easy to forget the promises we make to God when we are in tough positions. We are desparate and we want God to act so we make a promise that we will do something for God if He will just help us out. But when things do turn around and we are comfortable, we often forget what God has done for us. The Bible warns us about this in several places. In Ecclesiastes, it says that it is better to not make a promise than to make one and not keep it. I take God's blessings for granted. I need to focus more on what God has done for me and praise Him for being with me wherever I have gone.

>**[Genesis 28:20-22](https://biblehub.com/esv/genesis/28.htm)** *Then Jacob made a vow, saying, “If God will be with me and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat and clothing to wear, so that I come again to my father’s house in peace, then the Lord shall be my God, and this stone, which I have set up for a pillar, shall be God’s house. And of all that you give me I will give a full tenth to you.”*

>**[Ecclesiastes 5:4-5](https://biblehub.com/esv/ecclesiastes/5.htm)** *When you vow a vow to God, do not delay paying it, for he has no pleasure in fools. Pay what you vow. 5It is better that you should not vow than that you should vow and not pay.*
