---
layout: post
title: God's Mercy and Compassion
subtitle: Genesis 19:15-16
---
**Genesis 19:15-16** *As morning dawned, the angels urged Lot, saying, “Up! Take your wife and your two daughters who are here, lest you be swept away in the punishment of the city.” But he lingered. So the men seized him and his wife and his two daughters by the hand, **the Lord being merciful to him**, and they brought him out and set him outside the city.*

What did Lot do to deserve being rescued? In 2 Peter we learn that he was a righteous man. Does that mean he deserved to be rescued by angels sent from God? I wouldn't say it was deserved or earned. No man can earn salvation. The main emphasis of these verses, and this story in general, is God's mercy. It's interesting how reminiscent this story is of the flood story. With the flood, God wnated to wipe out all of humanity because all their thoughts were evil, but Noah was righteous. God chose to have mercy and spare Noah and his family. It is much the same with Lot and the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah.

Looking at the bigger picture. This story explains salvation. Everyone is deserving of death and destruction, but God chooses to have mercy on some and give grace to cover all sins. I'm reminded today to be thankful for God's great mercy and to trust in the promise in 2 Peter 2:9. "The Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials."


>**2 Peter 2:7-9** *and if He (God) rescued righteous Lot, greatly distressed by the sensual conduct of the wicked (for as that righteous man lived among them day after day, he was tormenting his righteous soul over their lawless deeds that he saw and heard); then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials, and to keep the unrighteous under punishment until the day of judgment*
