---
layout: post
title: Working On Your Relationship
subtitle: Exodus 27:20-21
---
**Exodus 27:20-21** *You shall command the people of Israel that they bring to you pure beaten olive oil for the light, that a lamp may regularly be set up to burn. In the tent of meeting, outside the veil that is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall tend it from evening to morning before the Lord. It shall be a statute forever to be observed throughout their generations by the people of Israel.*

God's command that they should always have a light burning in the tent of meeting meant that the Israelites would have to provide a consistent supply of oil. The light in the Tabernacle is representative of the Holy Spirit's light which shines within all of those who are born again. But just has the Israelites had to work to keep the light in the Tabernacle aflame, so we have to work to keep God's light in our lives. We need to be always working and "make every effort to supplement our faith" as Peter says. The knowledge of God doesn't automatically change you, you have to work at it with God's help. 

Side Note: Some scholars think the lamp only had to be light at night. The priest would light it at night and make sure there was enough oil to last until morning. Enough sunlight would get in through the tabernacle entrance made of linen that the light would not be necessary during the day. Josephus states that three lights were kept burning 24 hours a day. Check out [Matthew Poole's Commentary](https://biblehub.com/commentaries/poole/exodus/27.htm) on this verse for further reading.

>**[2 Peter 1:5-8](https://biblehub.com/2_peter/1.htm)** *For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection with love. For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they keep you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ*

>**[James 4:8](https://biblehub.com/james/4-8.htm)** *Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded.*
